Hey, quick question. How many of you
have a password that looks like this?
If you do, congratulations. You just
made yourself less secure. Today, I'm
going to prove it. And then I'll show
you the system that will actually work
today, 2026, and beyond. I've seen
people with 10digit pins for their phone
or another one where the password is all
special characters. Did you know that
something simple to type, easy to
remember, and having no special
characters could actually be safer? If
you're using extremely complex
passwords, thinking it's what's stopping
you from getting hacked, then you may
not actually be understanding the threat
you're facing, and you might still get
hacked. No, we don't need to do a deep
dive into the mathematics of passwords
with complex computations of entropy.
Instead, you need to understand how you
actually get hacked. Stay right there.
Brute force is the technique used to
hack passwords using the trial and error
method. It involves trying out every
possibility. So if the password is a
six-digit PIN code, then the possible
values to try are 000000
to 99999.
That makes 1 million possibilities. A
brute force attacker will try all of
that and the time it takes will be less
than the total amount of time it takes
to try out one million possibilities.
using the fastest computer possible.
Obviously, it would take nanconds to
count them all. So, you figure that's
the threat to your password. I did some
math. If your password is 40 digits with
upper and lower case with numeric and
special characters, how long would it
take for the fastest supercomput on
Earth, in fact, using multiple
supercomputers to hack it? Assuming that
the password app requires 1 millisecond
to respond, the answer is 10 to the 65th
power in years. So this is way larger
than the age of the universe, meaning it
is not a threat. Now let's change this
to the same rule but with an 8 character
password. And the answer is an attacker
with a single machine hundreds of
thousands of years. An attacker with
1,000 machines in parallel, 100 to 200
years. An attacker with 100,000
machines, one to two years. So even just
using the typical password format is
pretty good. But let me shock you here.
Again, doing some math. What about a 15
character password? Alphabetical only,
upper, lower, and random. And the
important part here is random. The
solution is uncrackable.
This alone should stop your code with
this realization. A simple password with
15 letters is already uncrackable using
brute force. But this doesn't assume
real words. I said random letters. So
that's still pretty complex.
Rate limits.
In the examples I gave earlier and this
is important to understand here. I
assigned a time to enter each password
at 1 millisecond per try. This is
completely unrealistic in real life
online. In the majority of password
entry methods, including personal
computers, there is always some delay
built into password entry, sometimes
several seconds after multiple attempts
fail, which is thousands of times slower
than the 1 millisecond I used to compute
the examples I just gave. So depending
on where you're entering the password,
the rate limit or the number of attempts
per window of time may not allow brute
force attacks at all. Attempts
limit.
This applies to internet platforms,
phones, and computers. And this is the
attempts limit. After you've tried some
number of times like 10, then the
machine will lock up and not allow
password entry for a day or in some
cases forever. Most of the big platforms
and all the best made sites have some
attempts limit like 10 tries per day.
two-factor authentication.
An even more severe slowdown now is that
many platforms require a two-factor
authentication like text or email to
even log in without even considering the
issue of a successful password entry.
This alone will make someone reconsider
doing a brute force attack. They will
also send a notice if a new login is
detected from a new machine which is
also a warning flag to you if someone is
trying to perform a hack
who are subject to brute force. I'm just
going to state it as bluntly as I can.
It may not be apparent to some of you
but you are not that important. Bottom
line, normal people are never brute
forced. Nation states might try on
billionaires, but even they usually go
another route. Because complex passwords
are timeconuming to enter and subject to
mistakes, they are often reused a lot
and that introduces the real risk.
Have I been pawned?
The real massive source of hacks is
demonstrated by the website have
ibenponed.com
which I will just abbreviate to HIBP.
HIBP tracks all the hack databases and
lists you if your email has been
included in a breach. This is the clue
that someone may have acquired your
password. You should go to this site and
if you're the average person, type in
your well-known email and see if your
email is compromised. I will bet that
there's a 90% chance you will be on that
list. So, what's happened here? In the
news, you'll hear that 23 andMe, Google,
Ticket Master, Facebook, Twitter,
Equifax, and LinkedIn have been hacked.
This just goes on and on and will likely
keep happening for the foreseeable
future. This is important. This is the
major way your credentials are acquired,
not by brute force. So when a platform
gets hacked, the typical response of
that company is to offer you identity
protection via Liflock and you think
it's good. This is the biggest BS of the
century. Unfortunately, after the hack
happens, identity protection is the
least of your worries. The issue is less
about the complexity of passwords, which
is really not that big of a concern in
most platforms with rate limiting,
attempt limiting, and 2FA. The issue is
password reuse, not brute force. Yes,
folks, there's the hacking vector,
password reuse. The result is a data
pair, which is email plus password. So,
knowing this, it's a simple matter to
make one attempt at all platforms to see
if the login works. But the hackers will
typically attempt to break into your
email first since this will give them a
way to handle two-factor authentication.
Again, this is one attempt, not brute
force. There are a couple of lessons to
be learned here. The email and password
is a pair. Passwords by themselves are
not important if you don't know what the
email is. So, some email providers like
our Braxmail product has some unique
capabilities here since it can do
unlimited aliases. This breaks the
password reuse problem since you can use
a different email address for every
platform. Lesson number two here is that
if you reuse a password then if that
platform is hacked then you will
potentially have multiple accounts
hacked. We need to learn how to
compartmentalize this risk.
Fishing.
Fishing, which has that weird spelling,
is the attack used by hackers to acquire
your password directly, typically by
social engineering, meaning they will
trick you in thinking that some link is
valid and is from the original platform
and then you enter a password which is
then captured. I will teach you some
common sense rules to not be vulnerable
to this. 80 to 90% of these attacks will
come from email and SMS. So, if you
respond to email and click links
directly from emails or an SMS message,
then you will likely get fished and your
password acquired. If you don't do
password reuse, then that single site
you logged into will be hacked. If you
reuse passwords, then it will be a
bigger problem. So, password reuse
expands the risks. But really, this is
common sense in the internet. If a bank
sends you a notice, go directly to the
bank site and log in to see if the
notice is valid. Don't click on any
email that is unsolicited. Obviously, if
you triggered an email from a website
like to log in, that's fine because you
initiated it. But unsolicited messages
with links is a fishing attack. How much
of my email is a fishing attack? Some
days it seems like 25% of my emails in
my case is an attack. So never ever ever
put information in on any site you
access via a link from an email or a
text. At most consider it read only and
even I won't do that.
Spear fishing.
Spearishing is a more targeted attack
and is directed towards a single person
instead of a broad hacking attempt using
stolen personal data from the Equifax
hack. For example, someone could trick
you into thinking they know everything
about you and then trick you into
revealing pin codes on ATM cards, for
example. This kind of attack is
typically more personal and it's done
through phone calls. It reminds me of
the old scam where they call you and say
they're from Microsoft tech support and
they need to access your computer. For
goodness sake, in this day and age,
learn to hang up.
Password strategy.
Now that you understand where the
attacks actually come from, we can come
up with a password strategy. As
demonstrated here, password complexity
isn't particularly relevant. You do have
to make a unique password so that the
common password 123 type choices are
removed. However, since most platforms
are limited to 10 tries plus 2FA, there
really isn't much of a brute force risk
with any online platform. So complexity
doesn't help. Instead, focus on no reuse
as the goal. Now, this is a very
difficult goal as no reuse introduces
the problem of not being able to
remember a password for multiple sites.
So, I will introduce two password types.
One for use with low security sites and
one for high security sites and offline
use. I'm going to start with the most
secure version and then end with the one
that's the most convenient, which is
made for lower level security sites.
Start fresh.
This is extremely important. You must
start fresh. You must assume that you're
already in the HIV list and that you
were already hacked in the past. So, you
must not ever use passwords you've used
in the past. This is a requirement in
any of the solutions I'm going to offer.
If you already used this password before
today, then this will all fail.
Six random words.
The most secure password is actually not
made up of extremely difficult to type
special characters. The easiest way is
to string up six random words. You can
segregate the words with a space or
separate them with a special character.
up to you, whatever is easier for you to
type. Here's an example.
This one is 32 characters. Certain
things you will discover here is that
this kind of format of password is long.
It is usually between 28 to 35
characters. And again, you cannot reuse
this. It's used for one platform. These
kinds of highsecurity passwords are best
for banks offline use like passworded
zip files, Wi-Fi WPA2 passwords, email
credentials. Although these passwords
are easy to read and type, they cannot
be remembered if you use many of them.
So, you must use a password manager to
store your passwords. But I wouldn't use
these types of passwords often just for
high security purposes. I caution you
though not to use this format for
everything since many sites have a
password length limit and these can get
quite long so it will not work
everywhere because these are not reused
at all. They are good for mitigating a
fishing attack. This is important. You
must use this kind of password for an
email and it must never be reused. Email
is the number one target.
limited reuse.
I want to create a distinction here. For
the hundreds of sites that are not a
financial risk, where there's no stored
credit card, then the high security
method of a nonreused password is
inconvenient and overkill. This is
because these platforms like Reddit, X,
Tik Tok, Netflix, Prime Video, and so on
are so frequently visited and you have
to reenter your password over and over.
I would group low-risk sites into three
categories. Bucket A, social media.
Bucket B, streaming and gaming.
Bucket C, shopping and random sites. And
for each of these groups, I would reuse
a four random word password that you've
never used before. 20 to 28 characters
each. Short enough to type fast, but
strong enough to not be broken online.
Example. Yes, we're doing a reuse here,
but by breaking this into smaller
groups, then the risk of a hack via HIBP
is reduced. Compartmentalization, as
shown here, reduces the risk of a
cascade attack. A breach in a streaming
site does not affect shopping sites or
your social media sites. Quick note, if
you're finding this useful and want more
no BS privacy tips like this every week,
hit that subscribe button and the bell.
Check out our other products and
services on BraxMe at the end of the
video. Now, let's talk about phone
unlock in the future with pass keys.
Phone unlock
to unlock your phone. What is the best
method? Typically, we choose between
PIN, pattern, fingerprint or Face ID.
The best way which cannot be observed by
others is the fingerprint method. PIN
and pattern may be discovered by others
watching you use your phone. Fingerprint
method does not record fingerprint. So
if this is your fear, forget that. It
does not photograph your fingerprint. It
is safe. Face ID is less safe because
it's actually based on the shape of your
face and those values can be potentially
retrieved and used outside of the phone.
The main problem with biometrics is that
someone may compel you to use
biometrics, which does not have the same
level of protection under the fourth
amendment as PIN or pattern. So,
possibly turn off the fingerprint method
when traveling.
Pass keys
as an alternative to passwords plus
two-factor authentication. Many sites
now offer support for pass keys. This is
actually fine as pass keys are managed
by an exchange of certificates and there
is no exchange of biometrics as most
people assume. In my experience though,
it is potentially possible to lose pass
keys if you change computers or your
computer breaks in some way. This is the
problem with softwarebased TOTP
authenticator similar to Google
authenticator. Again, these keys are
tied to a device. So if you lose the
device, reset the OS, or simply forget,
then you lose the keys. So I actually
prefer using a hardwarebased key like a
UB key. This has been more flawless in
my opinion.
Final thoughts.
That's it. Password complexity is a lie.
This is your 5-minute action plan. Do
this today. Here's what actually keeps
you safe in 2026 and beyond right now.
Go to have ibenpone.com and check your
main emails today. Change your email,
banking, and Apple Google passwords to
brand new sixword passphrases you've
never used before. Add a UB key or pass
key. This week, create three fresh
three-word passphrases and assign them
to your buckets. social media, streaming
and gaming, shopping and random sites.
Reuse inside each bucket only. From now
on, never click login links from email
or text. Type the site yourself or use a
bookmark. Do those four things and you
instantly become harder to hack than 99%
of people on Earth without living in a
password manager and without typing 40
character nonsense every day.
Start fresh today.
Hey, if you're serious about privacy,
come join us at Braxme. This is a
growing community where real privacy
people hang out. No censorship, no
nonsense. While you're there, check out
the tools we actually built and use
ourselves.
Braxmail, unlimited aliases, no IP
leaks.
Bra virtual phone, real anonymous
numbers, BitesVPN, no logs, no big corp
BS. The Google phones and more in the
store. The Bra 3 phone second batch is
open for pre-order right now at
bratech.net.
First batch sold out shortly after
release. Big thanks to everyone
supporting us on Patreon, locals, and
YouTube memberships. You keep this
channel alive. See you next time.
