Smart internet-connected devices have become
very prevalent, and it is almost impossible to
avoid them. Even if you don’t buy voluntary
surveillance devices like voice assistants
and cameras that work through the cloud, it seems
like every light bulb, every thermostat, and every
household appliance has its own app, and it wants
to extort you for your WiFi password. And who
knows what happens once they get it? Being on the
wifi doesn’t just grant access to the internet,
it also grants access to your whole LAN.
Hopefully, the situation will improve in
the future. Maybe thanks to new
standards like Matter and Thread.
But in this video, we will explore how
we can deal with the WiFi connected
‘smart devices’. Perhaps we can put them in a
little networking prison and make them suffer.
Or at least, we can create some separation between
IoT and LAN devices with virtual wifi interfaces
and vlans. And then we can use firewall rules and
queues to keep our home network safe and reliable.
For this demonstration I have already
pre-configured this hEX S and this hAP
ax2 to simulate a realistic network. The
hEX S has a trunk port with both VLANs
that we will use. And the hAP ax2 is just
going to show us how the network looks from
the perspective of an IoT device.
So neither of them is a necessity.
The whole configuration that you will see
is happening on a single Access Point.
What I have here is a hAP ax S running
the default configuration. So far,
I have only changed the identity
name so it is easier to tell apart.
The first thing that we are going to
need is a 2.4GHz WiFi interface. You
could repurpose an existing interface
solely for IoT, but you don’t have to,
because RouterOS lets you create multiple
virtual WiFi interfaces. There are hardware
and physics limitations, of course, so you
couldn’t just create a million of them.
The way that virtual interfaces
work is that you take the radio,
the WiFi hardware that emits the wireless signals,
and have it advertise more than one SSID. The
main upside is that these new WiFi networks can
then have very specific security configurations,
but the downside is that it all happens on
the same physical medium. So you can’t just
have a virtual interface operate at a different
frequency than its parent or master interface,
for example. And also, the hardware
resources are limited, so overall,
the more virtual interfaces you add,
the slower they will get on average.
If you are curious about the maximum limit for
your access point, just type in the terminal:
“/interface wifi radio print detail”,
and look for ‘max-interfaces’.
But let’s get on with the configuration.
First, you will want to find the 2.4Ghz
interface on your AP. For mine, that will be
wifi1, and we can verify this in the Channel tab.
You will notice later, this tab does not exist for
virtual interfaces. Now, in the security settings,
the IoT devices will most likely need WPA2 for
compatibility, but if you are only using this
as a parent interface, you can safely disable it
and stick to WPA3 for your more important devices.
To add a virtual WiFi interface, simply click
‘New’ and select WiFi. In the Security settings,
select the authentication types you need and
enter the passphrase you want to use. In the
Configuration tab, enter your chosen SSID.
In the General tab, you can specify an easy
to remember name and, of course, if you ever
need a station instead of an access point,
you could simply change the mode at
the bottom. Click ‘Ok’ to complete.
An optional crazy thing you could do to make
your WiFi security ridiculous would be to
give each station a unique passphrase
and isolate them from other devices,
so that if one got compromised, the bad
things it could do would be very limited.
Personally, I would not bother doing this in a
home setup, but just to entertain the thought.
If you go to ‘/interface/wifi/access-list’,
you will find that you can add rules. They
can be used to filter wifi devices by
various properties, but most importantly,
the mac-address. And then you can give them
specific treatment, such as request a unique
passphrase. Notice the created rule is an accept
action, similar to firewall rules, so you could
add a reject rule in the end, limiting access
to very specific devices. Other interesting
things you could do are client-isolation, which
prevents a device from talking to other WiFi
connected devices, or you could even override
vlan configuration and assign a specific ID.
Then there is another interesting configuration
option that I don’t need right now, but I should
mention it in case you are using CAPsMAN.
Datapath settings can be found under each
wifi interface. Notice, you could assign a bridge,
perform client isolation, and assign a VLAN ID,
among other things. All those settings
can be found elsewhere, but in this tab,
they are meant to be applied dynamically.
This is necessary when using CAPsMAN. As it
applies wifi configuration to other devices,
the managed interfaces on those devices are
essentially created at runtime, and that means you
cannot include them in your static configuration.
So in a nutshell, if you are running
a CAPsMAN controller you will need to
turn your dynamic IoT interface into an
access port from the datapath section.
Now, I am only setting up a single access
point here, so I don’t need to worry about
dynamically created interfaces, so I will
proceed with static vlan configuration.
But before that, we need to understand
what happens with any new interfaces
that are created on top of the default
configuration. The interface list section
in the default configuration contains
a LAN list and a WAN list. Typically,
you have a single WAN port, and then the LAN is
a preconfigured bridge with all its ports. This
allows for simplified configurations
elsewhere, especially the firewall.
But notice, the newly created wifi IoT interface
is in neither LAN nor WAN. Security-wise,
it is in a gray zone, and you will
probably want to either add it to
the LAN interface list or add it as a port to
your bridge. I will address that in a moment.
There might be cases where you want
an interface that is neither in the
LAN list nor the LAN bridge. Then you
might need to adjust your firewall.
The forward chain should not cause
any issues, but the input chain has
a drop rule that would prevent any non-LAN
ports from log-in attempts into the router,
and it could block other RouterOS features from
working as expected. A tempting option would be
to simply change the ‘not LAN’ interface
list to ‘WAN’, but this is far from ideal,
and in our case we actually want to block our IoT
devices from interacting with our router too much.
So I will leave this rule as it was, and later
make a surgical exception for mDNS input.
For our setup, we need to create a
couple more interfaces for our VLANs.
Let’s say we want to use vlan10 for our
LAN network, and we want our IoT devices
in vlan 20. Note, that we are creating
these interfaces on top of our bridge,
but they are not bridge ports, so
currently they do not belong to the LAN.
On our bridge we add our
IoT wifi port with pvid 20,
and we will also set the frame types to untagged.
This creates an interesting situation
where the wifi interface is in our LAN,
but any incoming traffic will get immediately put
into vlan 20 where it is no longer part of LAN.
Next, you will want to configure any
additional access ports for vlan 10 and vlan
20. Most ports will probably go into vlan 10.
Then in my setup ether4 will be a trunk port,
so I don’t need to set its
pvid, but I do want to change
the frame type from ‘all’ to vlan tagged only.
To complete the trunk port we need to go to the
‘VLANs’ tab on the bridge and add vlan 10, tagged
port ether4, and then vlan 20, tagged port ether4.
Now, before we turn on vlan-filtering,
we need to make sure our vlan10 traffic
is part of the LAN and we do not lose
access to our device. We will accomplish
this by simply adding the vlan10-LAN
interface to our LAN interface list.
After that, we can go to the bridge settings,
vlan tab, and check the ‘VLAN filtering’. When
you hit ‘Ok’, you will lose the connection to
your device, and you will need to reconnect using
the MAC address and fix the IP configuration.
If you open up the addresses and the DHCP server,
you will see that there is now a problem. You
need to update the LAN address interface from
the bridge to the ‘vlan10-LAN’ interface, and
then do the same with the DHCP server interface.
After that we want to add an IP address for our
vlan20 interface and run the DHCP setup for it,
so that our IoT devices can also
receive addresses through DHCP.
Then, before we move on to the firewall setup,
you will most likely want to enable the
mDNS repeater in the DNS settings. For it
to actually work with the default firewall,
you will need to do a tweak in a second.
Now, when it comes to the firewall, it is
important to understand that you actually have two
of them. If you are running IPv6 in your network,
you will have to take any adjustments that we
make to the IPv4 firewall and repeat them in the
IPv6 firewall. Even if you are not distributing
IPv6 addresses in your network, every interface
still gets a link-local IPv6 address, and those
link-local addresses can theoretically be used
to bypass IPv4 firewall rules to some extent.
But don’t worry, if you are not
sure what you are doing with IPv6,
you have an easy way out! You can simply
open IPv6 settings and disable IPv6.
In the IPv4 firewall, let’s look
at the input chain. Remember,
there is this rule at the bottom that
drops everything not coming from LAN.
For the mDNS repeater to work correctly with
your default firewall, you might have to add
an input firewall rule that accepts mDNS traffic,
as any packets that will get repeated are first
considered as input to the router. Filter for
UDP traffic coming from port 5353 and only the
specific interface you need to avoid unnecessary
security holes in places like your WAN interface.
The default firewall contains
this accept rule for ICMP,
and it just makes your device pingable from
all interfaces, including WAN and any new
interfaces you create. This is pretty much
harmless, but it does make all your router’s
IP addresses discoverable from any of its
interfaces. But you might not want your
light bulb to be able to find your WAN address
by performing a simple network scan, for example.
So we might as well modify the ICMP rule and
set the ‘In Interface’ to be LAN exclusively.
This way, any pings coming from the IoT
network or the internet are simply rejected.
Now, in the forward chain, we need to prevent
IoT devices from messing with devices in the
rest of our LAN. We can add a simple rule that
filters for connections coming from the IoT vlan,
going to the LAN, and we should select only
the connections state ‘new’. As we want
our LAN devices to be able to establish
connections to IoT, but not vice versa.
Just move this drop rule to
the top of your forward chain.
In the setup that I am going for in this
demonstration, I do not need any more forwarding
rules. But if we had more VLANs or a Guest wifi
interface, for example, then we would need more.
You would want another drop rule preventing
IoT devices from opening new connections to
your Guest network. And you would also
want two more drop rules restricting
the Guests from opening connections to
the LAN and IoT networks as well. You
can create all those rules in the same
fashion as the drop rule we just added.
Then you might also be interested
in completely preventing the
IoT vlan from accessing the internet.
I suppose it is removing the ‘I’ in the ‘IoT’,
but in some situations, that makes sense.
You could do this by adding another drop
rule with ‘In. Interface’ set to your IoT vlan
and ‘Out. Interface List’ set to the WAN list.
Okay, most likely you do not want to cut
off internet access from your IoT network,
but you want to make sure that your IoT
devices can never hog up all your bandwidth.
To set up rate limiting using the Queue
Tree method, you will want to first open
mangle rules and mark packets in both traffic
directions. For downloads, select the forward
chain and in the In/Out interfaces specify
traffic coming from ‘Not’ your interface,
going to it. Then, for uploads, you will want to
do the opposite – mark traffic coming from the
interface and going anywhere else. Then make
sure you have disabled FastTrack. Finally,
in Queue Tree add a global queue
and give it a child queue using
the download packet mark and set Max Limit.
Do the same for Uploads, and you are set!
Now let’s test our setup from the
perspective of these other two devices!
On the hAP ax2, if we try to ping the LAN address
of our AP, it fails. And if we switch to the IoT
address, it also fails, because we are only
allowing incoming pings from LAN devices.
If we switch to an IP address from another
device in the IoT network, we do get a response
as expected. And then in the neighbors, we can
see that there are two other RouterOS devices.
But let’s run a bandwidth test to a
server that’s behind our AP’s WAN port.
Within a couple of seconds,
we can see that it finds
our throughput to be around 20 megabits
per second, which is what it should be.
Now, let’s see about the hEX…
It has IP addresses in both vlans, and
currently it is set up to route the bandwidth test
through the IoT vlan. So if we run the test, it
will have the same throughput as on the hAP ax2.
Do note that the limitation we put in place is
for the whole vlan, so multiple devices won’t be
able to achieve this throughput at the same time.
If we switch to a route through the
LAN, we can achieve speeds that are
much greater than the IoT rate limits,
although we are not reaching the top
performance of the hEX S, because the
bandwidth test itself is taxing the CPU.
This completes this configuration
guide. You should be able to use
your new setup safely with your
IoT devices. And on top of that,
if you need to run some sort of home
server that interacts with the IoT network,
you can make that happen with the container and
apps features – directly on your access point.
My only advice would be to put them in the LAN
network and not together with IoT, so that the
firewall is protecting your containerized server
against login attempts coming from IoT devices.
